README.md, before:

# CoolTerm & Sublime Text package for scripting capabilities
## Previously CoolTerm_pip which has been deprecated
A python package to provide scripting capability for [CoolTerm](https://freeware.the-meiers.org) as well as automating other activities (see *mpbuild*) for MicroPython and FlashForth. By installing via `pip`, one can easily use the scripting capabilities of CoolTerm via *python*.

## Description
Its useful to move the focus to *CoolTerm*, once a automated *build* or *up*load has been completed. This scripting enhancement allows you to immediately begin interacting with the microcontroller using *CoolTerm*. The connection script will make the appropriate changes required for activating the *CoolTerm* window on *macOS* (using *AppleScript*) or on *Windows* (using *pygetwindow*). 

In this example, I use the *build system* on *Sublime Text 4* (**ST4**).

## Platforms
I've been able to get this to work well on *macOS* and *Windows*. I have been unsuccessful on *Linux*.
 
## Installation

### 1. Clone the repository and install
```bash
git clone git@github.com:lkoepsel/CT_build.git
# change to the directory
cd CT_build
# install software
pip install .
```
### OR Install from GitHub

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/lkoepsel/CT_build
```

### 2. Activate CoolTerm scripting
To use scripting with CoolTerm, you will need to enable it in Preferences. Go to CoolTerm -> Preferences -> Scripting and check the box `Enable Remote Control Socket`. If on the Mac, be sure to check `Enable AppleScript`. If you see the error *"Could not connect to CoolTerm"*, more than likely it is due to not enabling this preference. 

### 3. Add build automation to Sublime Text 4 (ST4)
#### AVR_C - automates a `make` commands for building C programs on the Uno (*AVR family*)
Save this file as *Make AVR_C.sublime-build* using Tools -> Build System -> New Build System in **ST4**
```json
{
	"cmd": "make",
	"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && make flash && ct_conn",
	"file_regex": "^(..[^:\n]*):([0-9]+):?([0-9]+)?:? (.*)$",
	"selector": "source.makefile",
	"keyfiles": ["Makefile", "makefile"],

	"variants":
	[
		{
			"name": "Flash only",
			"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && make flash && ct_conn"
		},
		{
			"name": "All new",
			"shell_cmd": "make LIB_clean && make clean && make"
		},
		{
			"name": "Clean",
			"shell_cmd": "make clean"
		},
	]
}
```
#### FlashForth - automates uploading a file to a board running FlashForth
```json
{

	"variants":
	[
		{
			"name": "Send to board (normal speed) and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "up $file"
		},
		{
			"name": "Send to board (slower speed) and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "up -n 3 $file"
		}
	]

}
```
#### MicroPython - automates uploading a script to a processor running MicroPython
Save this file as *MicroPython.sublime-build* using Tools -> Build System -> New Build System in **ST4**
```json
{

	"variants":
	[
		{
			"name": "Copy to main.py and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && mpremote cp $file :main.py && mpremote reset && ct_conn"
		},
		{
			"name": "Copy to same filename and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && mpremote cp $file :$file_name && mpremote reset && ct_conn"
		},
		{
			"name": "Cross compile same filename for upload",
			"shell_cmd": "mpy-cross-v6.1 -march=armv6m $file"
		}
	]

}
```
### Build a MicroPython Application - `mpbuild`
This repo also installs `mpbuild` which allows you to build an application by creating a text file containing the instructions as to how/where to copy files required for the application. 

Detailed explanation can be found in my repository [microserver](https://github.com/lkoepsel/microserver). In short:

1. Remove all files from board: `mpremote littefs_rp2`
2. Build application: `mpbuild application.txt`

 
## Other Usage Examples
1. **Make sure you turn on "Enable Remote Control Socket" under "Scripting" in the Preferences**. 
2. Follow the example scripts contained in the CoolTerm documentation, *CoolTerm -> Scripting -> Python -> Examples*

## Connect and Disconnect Scripting
My main scripting requirement is to have my editor, *ST4*, disconnect CoolTerm, upload code then reconnect *CoolTerm*. When installed via `pip`, there will be two CLI commands which will disconnect and connect/activate CoolTerm. You can run the commands below in the command line or use them in a script of your design. 

### Disconnect - `ct_disc`
To disconnect CoolTerm from the serial port, use `ct_disc` in your scripts.

### Connect - `ct_conn`
To disconnect CoolTerm from the serial port, use `ct_conn` in your scripts.

## Notes
1. This repository contains the CoolTerm python program, *CoolTerm.py*, which is contained in the CoolTerm application download. It will be updated when CoolTerm is updated.

Commit message:

minor edits to README and other documentation

README.md, after:

# CT_build: CoolTerm & Sublime Text package for scripting capabilities

### Repository was previously CoolTerm_pip 
### CoolTerm_pip has been deprecated, please use this repository

A python package providing scripting capability for [CoolTerm](https://freeware.the-meiers.org) along with [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/index2) for automating activities for MicroPython, C and FlashForth. By installing via `pip`, one can easily use the scripting capabilities of CoolTerm via *python*.

## Description
Its useful to move the focus to *CoolTerm*, once a automated *build* or *upload* has been completed. This scripting enhancement allows you to immediately begin interacting with the microcontroller using *CoolTerm*. The connection script will make the appropriate changes required for activating the *CoolTerm* window on *macOS* (using *AppleScript*) or on *Windows* (using *pygetwindow*). 

In this example, I use the *build system* on *Sublime Text 4* (**ST4**).

## Platforms
I've been able to get this to work well on *macOS* and *Windows*. I have been unsuccessful on *Linux*.
 
## Installation

### 1. Clone the repository and install
```bash
git clone git@github.com:lkoepsel/CT_build.git
# change to the directory
cd CT_build
# install software
pip install .
```
### OR Install from GitHub

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/lkoepsel/CT_build
```

### 2. Activate CoolTerm scripting
To use scripting with CoolTerm, you will need to enable it in Preferences. Go to CoolTerm -> Preferences -> Scripting and check the box `Enable Remote Control Socket`. If on the Mac, be sure to check `Enable AppleScript`. If you see the error *"Could not connect to CoolTerm"*, more than likely it is due to not enabling this preference. 

## Add build automation to Sublime Text 4 (ST4)
### AVR_C - automates `make` commands for building C programs on the Uno (*AVR family*)
Save this file as *Make AVR_C.sublime-build* using Tools -> Build System -> New Build System in **ST4**
```json
{
	"cmd": "make",
	"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && make flash && ct_conn",
	"file_regex": "^(..[^:\n]*):([0-9]+):?([0-9]+)?:? (.*)$",
	"selector": "source.makefile",
	"keyfiles": ["Makefile", "makefile"],

	"variants":
	[
		{
			"name": "Flash only",
			"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && make flash && ct_conn"
		},
		{
			"name": "All new",
			"shell_cmd": "make LIB_clean && make clean && make"
		},
		{
			"name": "Clean",
			"shell_cmd": "make clean"
		},
	]
}
```
### FlashForth - automates uploading a file to a board running FlashForth
Save as *FlashForth.sublime-build* using Tools -> Build System -> New Build System in ST4. There are two versions to upload to the *Uno*:
1) No delays - if upload finishes successfully, continue to use
2) Slight delay per line - if upload seems to overwhelm FlashForth, you can slow it down using the -n option. 
```json
{

	"variants":
	[
		{
			"name": "Send to board (normal speed) and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "up $file"
		},
		{
			"name": "Send to board (slower speed) and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "up -n 3 $file"
		}
	]

}
```
#### MicroPython - automates uploading a script to a processor running MicroPython
Save this file as *MicroPython.sublime-build* using Tools -> Build System -> New Build System in **ST4**
```json
{

	"variants":
	[
		{
			"name": "Copy to main.py and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && mpremote cp $file :main.py && mpremote reset && ct_conn"
		},
		{
			"name": "Copy to same filename and activate CoolTerm",
			"shell_cmd": "ct_disc && mpremote cp $file :$file_name && mpremote reset && ct_conn"
		},
		{
			"name": "Cross compile same filename for upload",
			"shell_cmd": "mpy-cross-v6.1 -march=armv6m $file"
		}
	]

}
```
## Building a MicroPython Application - `mpbuild`
This repo also installs `mpbuild` which allows you to build an application by creating a text file containing the instructions as to how/where to copy files required for the application. 

Detailed explanation can be found in my repository [microserver](https://github.com/lkoepsel/microserver). In short:

1. Remove all files from board: `mpremote littefs_rp2`
2. Build application: `mpbuild application.txt`

 
## Other Usage Examples
1. **Make sure you turn on "Enable Remote Control Socket" under "Scripting" in the Preferences**. 
2. Follow the example scripts contained in the CoolTerm documentation, *CoolTerm -> Scripting -> Python -> Examples*

## Connect and Disconnect Scripting
My main scripting requirement is to have my editor, *ST4*, disconnect CoolTerm, upload code then reconnect *CoolTerm*. When installed via `pip`, there will be two CLI commands which will disconnect and connect/activate CoolTerm. You can run the commands below in the command line or use them in a script of your design. 

### Disconnect - `ct_disc`
To disconnect CoolTerm from the serial port, use `ct_disc` in your scripts.

### Connect - `ct_conn`
To disconnect CoolTerm from the serial port, use `ct_conn` in your scripts.

## Notes
1. This repository contains the CoolTerm python program, *CoolTerm.py*, which is contained in the CoolTerm application download. It will be updated when CoolTerm is updated.
